---
title: "BUO Soloist Spotlight: Aaron Gruen"
subtitle: Featuring Aaron Gruen
author: sabrinachiang1
topic: News
date: 2022-05-12
image:
  url: images/uploads/aaron_gruen.jpg
  caption: Aaron Gruen, 2021-2022 BUO Concerto Competition Winner. He performed
    the Shostakovich Cello Concerto No. 1 with BUO in the March 2022 concert
    season.
---
Aaron Gruen, a junior at Brown University, has been playing the cello in the Brown University Orchestra for three years. At the age of four, after waking up from a dream in which he was playing random notes on the cello, he started taking cello lessons in his hometown of Munich, Germany. Since then he has continued living this dream to the fullest. In 2020, during the height of the pandemic, Aaron seized the once-in-a-lifetime opportunity to spend a year at the Prague Music Conservatory in the Czech Republic, fulfilling another dream of his: studying at a conservatory. There, he started learning the Shostakovich Cello Concerto No.1, a challenging and physically demanding piece of music that he thought he would never have the chance to learn. In a darker sense, Aaron chose this piece because he typically learns pieces of music based on the current chapter of his life, and Shostakovich perfectly sets the mood for a desolate, hopeless state of purgatory. Speaking in a brighter light, he has been dreaming of learning the Shostakovich since 2016 when he heard it for the first time, but in 2020, thanks to the pandemic, he knew this was finally the moment to learn the piece, wondering, “When else will I have the time to learn \[this piece]?” 

Aaron’s preferred method of learning a piece of music is to imagine a story—a method that falls in line with one of the main reasons he chose to pursue a concentration in music: to study what it means to be human. As for the Shostakovich, he imagines a protagonist running from the KGB in the first movement, followed by the lingering emotions of the dismayed family the protagonist left behind at home in the second movement. As the piece comes to a dramatic end in the last two movements, the protagonist plans an escape and flees from the Gulag. Aaron further states the recent Ukrainian situation as a source of inspiration behind his interpretation of the Shostakovich, occasionally looking at pictures from the war to inspire the dark intensity of the piece. 
After speaking with Aaron, the feeling that stands out the most is his love and passion for music. He states that music is, “the one thing that is constant in my life and will always be there.” For him, music is also meditative, taking him out of reality—and the pandemic—for a brief moment. While learning the Shostakovich, music was also all-encompassing, taking over many aspects of his daily life—with every door knock and footstep resembling the opening of the piece. However, his teacher, Professor Daniel Harp, remarks that the atonal section before the recapitulation—or as Aaron calls it, the “manic section”—should only be practiced in a bunker lest he receive angry letters from his neighbors. So, Aaron practices in the basement of Steinert. As for the physically demanding nature of this piece, Aaron has been training for the Providence Marathon, which doubles as training for the Shostakovich. 

Fortunately, Aaron is no stranger to pieces of endurance; his favorite BUO performance was Mahler Symphony No. 1, his first performance as a freshman. Before arriving on campus, he received the audition excerpts, so Aaron thinks of the piece as his first introduction – a prelude – to Brown. Now, whenever Aaron hears this piece, he feels nostalgic and reminisces about the time he was a freshman at Brown. It even inspired him to take a class with Professor Michael Steinberg about Mahler in the Music Department, which reaffirmed his desire to concentrate in music in addition to chemistry. 

Aside from performances, Aaron fondly remembers the 2020 BUO Winter Ball. Aaron reflected that although orchestra rehearsals and concerts are wonderful opportunities to bond as musicians, events—such as the BUO Winter Ball—that foster a connection between the orchestra and the Brown community can create a lasting memory that the audience will cherish. The 2020 BUO Winter Ball was also the origin of the ‘BUO Cello Ensemble’, an ensemble of around a dozen BUO cellists that assembled at 10PM—after evening BUO rehearsals—to practice and arrange Pop medleys to perform at the Winter Ball. The 2nd annual BUO Winter Ball in 2022 featured the revival of the BUO Cello Ensemble. Ultimately, Aaron loves the BUO community and the friends he made from it: he plays in a quintet with three other BUO musicians, he met one of his housemates through BUO, and he hosts dinner parties for all the BUO cellists at his house. Notably, Aaron’s connection with BUO dates all the way back to when his father was a clarinetist in the BUO, where he, too, won the concerto competition. 

Outside of his BUO activities, Aaron enjoys giving back to the music community in Providence—yet another facet of Aaron’s love for music as well as a channel for him to share his passion with others. As a board member of the Brown student club, Healing Through Harmony, he organizes performances at hospitals, healthcare facilities, and the Rhode Island Prison. On top of that, every week, he teaches young cellists at the Moses Brown School, where he encourages his students to embrace imperfection, and “to appreciate the fact that as musicians, we’re also actors.” It is heartening to see Aaron not only living out his lifelong dream of playing the cello, but also inspiring a similar dream in others to follow their own musical journeys, creating endless stories with infinite protagonists along the way.