---
title: Kahoot & Cupcakes
subtitle: This Semester in Review
author: sabrinachiang1
topic: Announcement
date: 2022-12-12
---
Hi! I’m Sabrina Chiang, the 2022-2023 BUO President! While I really cherished my time as Vice President last year with Haley Seo ‘23 as President, I had many worries coming in this year as I had big shoes to fill not only from Haley but also from previous BUO leaderships. But after reviewing our feedback form at the end of the year and seeing that the orchestra placed a major emphasis on social events, I felt confident about where I wanted to devote myself this year.

During my years serving on the Junior and Senior Class Coordinating Boards, I witnessed the critical role of social events in building a vibrant community. And what more dynamic community is there than the orchestra? Yet, I also learned that social events can achieve the goal of building community only if safety, well-being, and accountability are addressed and ensured. So, over this past summer, Chris Shin, 2022-2023 Vice President, and I drafted a BUO Board Constitution outlining these values, which will be ready for ratification next semester.

Meanwhile, during the semester, we created a new team on the board titled “Social Team” as a new entry-level position in addition to the classic “Librarian” role. The board also continued our traditional “Orchestra Families”, in which “Parents” are randomly grouped with “Children” to form the titular Orchestra Family. The goal is to facilitate orchestra members to meet other members they potentially wouldn’t have otherwise gotten to know. And learning from last year, this year we especially encouraged “Co-Parenting” so the responsibility doesn’t all lie on one person, and we introduced the concept of “Twins”, so newcomers don’t feel intimidated joining a family on their own.

In addition to Orchestra Families, the board also hosted a “Friendsgiving Dinner” for those who were still on campus close to Thanksgiving, and a “Kahoot & Cupcake Night”. Our “Kahoot & Cupcake Night” featured trivia-style questions about BUO and our conductor, Mark Seto, such as “What is Mark’s boba order?” (hint: the answer is in our previous newsletter!); and sweet treats baked by our lovely Orchestra Families! Through these events, I realized that even the makeup of the orchestra lends itself to the importance of community: the orchestra is composed of the music and the people–and without either one, the orchestra simply would not exist.

And on that note, I would like to give a huge thank you to the board, and especially to Torben Parker ‘25 for all his work in putting together this Alumni Newsletter, Robin Hwang ‘23 for his amazing interviews, Ryan Lum ‘23 for his creativity in directing and editing the \[title] video, and Mark Appleman ‘23 for the cute photos. Without their work, this newsletter would not have been possible. I also want to thank the rest of the board for everyone’s dedication to the board and the orchestra. You all help make the orchestra a place people want to come back to–and reminisce about when they leave–or in other words, a family.

Follow our social media pages ([Facebook](https://www.facebook.com/BrownUniversityOrchestra), [Instagram](http://instagram.com/brownuniversityorchestra)) curated by our lovely PR Team for more photos from our “Kahoot & Cupcake Night”, and keep an eye out for more fun events coming soon!