---
title: "BUO Soloist Spotlight: James Carl Osorio"
subtitle: Featuring James Carl Osorio
author: torbenparker1
topic: Blog
date: 2025-04-03
image:
  url: images/uploads/screenshot-2025-04-03-at-9.05.49 pm.png
---
What does it mean to love music? Most people don’t listen to music they dislike or music that causes them to fall asleep. Instead, we listen to music because it makes us feel something, whether joy, empathy, or something indescribable. Music isn’t just notes on a page, but memories and feelings. Performers must balance their personal interpretation of another composer’s work, while preserving the composer’s original intentions to create something beautiful to the audience. How does one find this balance?

James Carl Osorio, one of the concertoists playing with BUO in our upcoming concert on April 17th, has thought about that question a lot. “My passion for music has fluctuated,” he admitted to me. James was born in The Philippines, and grew up in a musical family: his mother is an elementary school choir teacher. So, James began with a curiosity towards music, which later turned into passion. At 15 years old, James saw *The Pianist*, a film about a pianist living in the Warsaw ghetto during World War II. It was a very moving experience for him, and took up the piano. But that wasn’t James’ only motivation. To some extent, he states, “I was engineered to be a professional concert pianist- that was the end goal of all piano students in The Philippines.” James admits that goal was “naïve,” but it motivated him to attend a conservatory in Manila for a few years.

When James turned 19, he moved to the US to attend undergrad conservatory. While there, James admitted, “I became disillusioned with my concert pianist dreams.” Conservatory life is no walk in the park. James sees being a professional musician soloist performer as akin to a professional sport, something you must dedicate your time and life to. Plus, James identified that “the way you play is so physical- in that respect, music literally is close to a sport.”  That high time commitment was compounded by James’ performer’s anxiety, and he began questioning his motives for pursuing music performance. “Was this even my own motivation?” he wondered.

James also felt restricted in his style. “There’s a certain kind of playing you need to win a competition,” he says, that focuses on technical accuracy and adherence to the composer’s intention. A judge in a competition expects the pianists (perhaps rightly, in some cases) to be more recreative than creative. Performers must primarily pass on the composer’s vision to the audience rather than completely reinterpreting it themselves. James’ musical style is more personal. “Who are you offending?” James told me. ”Beethoven? He’s deep in the ground. Don’t be too restricted by the intentions of the composer.”

He took a break, and started branching out into other realms of music, especially ballet and music theater. He liked those settings a lot more than classical solo piano, since he had to learn new skills. “All of a sudden, I had to develop my sight-reading skills, which I’d never used before!” James mused. “A pit orchestra has much less time to rehearse than a soloist.” The group nature of the pit orchestra also helped James’ performance anxiety. According to James, “Those new experiences saved me from dropping out of music completely.”

After undergrad, James completed a Master’s Degree in musicology and piano at University of Wisconsin. He began to recover his lost curiosity for music, being a part of a piano trio and continuing to play in pit orchestras. In 2024, he was accepted to the PhD program at Brown, but not for music, but for history instead. By then, James says, he had a better relationship with music. Rather than playing to match some vague expectation of “being a concert pianist,” James now performs music to discover “how my playing can be fun.” He wasn’t sure whether to participate in the BUO concerto competition, for fear that his playing style wouldn’t be accepted, but resolved to take a risk. According to him, “I thought, ‘This might be your last chance in a while to play before the people, really have fun with the piece- play crazy interpretive stuff, milk *rubatos*.' I was playing for myself, not to impress anyone. Pleasure stems *from* being able to play for the public. Even if I didn’t win the concerto competition, I was already happy.” That happiness shone through, leading to James performing with the BUO this upcoming concert. James’ chosen piece for the BUO concert, Frédéric Chopin’s *Andante Spianato et Grande Polonaise Brillante*, is meaningful to him as well. On a personal note, the *Andante Spianato* is featured in the final scene of *The Pianist*. James has also played it before, so performing it now enables him to focus on fine-tuning and enjoying the experience, rather than grinding and learning a new piece. His appreciation shines through in this playing, as he balances precise rhythms with his own personal movements.

James has resolved to pursue history as his long-term career. He doesn’t regret that decision, nor does he want to remove music from his life. In his History studies, James specializes on the role of sound throughout history- at Dachau, in Warsaw, and in the homes of everyday citizens. “Did people hear the radio differently in the past? Did they feel things differently? That’s so interesting to me,” James remarked. James also has a specific interest in reconstructing “forgotten” musical pieces composed in the concentration camps like Dachau and Buchenwald- merging history and music. Music performance may not be what James staked his life on. But that doesn’t mean it isn’t meaningful for him. As a musician in BUO, I can feel that passion when playing with James, and we hope you feel the same in our music.