---
title: "BUO Soloist Spotlight: Yiyun Li"
subtitle: Featuring Yiyun Li '26
author: zoeschwartz1
topic: Blog
date: 2026-03-16
image:
  url: images/uploads/yiyun_blog_header.jpg
---
On Saturday, March 14, those who were lucky enough to acquire a ticket to the Brown University Orchestra concert will have the opportunity to hear the bubbling laughter, swooping gestures, and poignant lyricism of Jean Françaix’s Clarinet Concerto. The piece will be performed by the BUO’s dedicated clarinetist and concerto competition winner, Yiyun Li. Yiyun is a senior from Baltimore, Maryland who studies music and IAPA (International and Public Affairs) and enjoys fiber arts, hiking, cooking, and crafting charcuterie boards. I recently sat down with her to discuss her musical journey and her connection to the Françaix concerto.

Although Yiyun had taken piano lessons since she was five, her love of the clarinet began in fifth grade. Her elementary school encouraged its students to choose any band or orchestra instrument to learn for the year. The exploratory music program allowed them to try out the clarinet, violin, and trumpet ahead of time, and Yiyun “\[could only] make sounds on the clarinet, so \[she] chose that one.” She explains that her relationship with the clarinet was quite different from her experience with piano: “When I was learning piano… I always thought of it as the instrument that my parents made me learn. I didn’t like it as much, just because I felt like I was forced into it a little bit. But with the clarinet, since I chose it, I thought it was super fun. I remember I really liked learning random pop songs.” Yiyun credits quite a bit of her passion for the clarinet to her private teacher back in Maryland, who she “was really close with” and “definitely played a big role in \[her] liking the instrument and wanting to pursue it more.” As Yiyun entered middle and high school, she found herself presented with more opportunities for clarinet performance and ensemble experience. She participated in bands and orchestras outside of her school, such as Maryland All-County Band and the Baltimore Symphony Youth Orchestra. 

Since orchestral performance was such a core part of her high school experience, she knew without a doubt that she wanted to join the Brown University Orchestra; Yiyun has been a member of the BUO for all four years of her time at university. However, Yiyun has a broader musical life at Brown than being a wonderful orchestral clarinetist (and bass clarinetist). She has participated in the Chamber Music Program and has taken private lessons with Karen Heninger through the Applied Music Program. Her musical experience expands beyond the classical world; she is currently “sort of playing part-time with the Brown Jazz Band,” and has been in Em’s Femmes, a jazz/pop band for underrepresented genders in jazz, since sophomore year. She also provides free clarinet lessons to members of the Providence community through the Community Music Project at Haven United Methodist Church. 

Yiyun has expressed great joy and gratitude toward her musical life at Brown and her time in the orchestra. She “just really \[enjoys] the orchestra community at Brown… a lot of \[her] closest friends are either in orchestra or are people that \[she] met through orchestra.” She states that the orchestra is “a very supportive space overall,” where everyone “just really likes music and really likes to play together,” fostering a wonderful sense of community. She also recognizes that her academic experience as a music concentrator has positively impacted her life as a performer: “Theory classes and musicology classes… have added a lot more depth to how I think about music. I definitely notice that the theory background enhances my playing… The musicology classes that I’ve taken… make me think a lot more about the background of a piece and the intention behind it… All of that has made me grow as a musician in how I approach music.” 

For Yiyun, the draw of the Françaix Clarinet Concerto “was that the piece sounded like it would be a lot of fun, and \[she] knew it would be a challenge to learn.” She was fascinated by the “really goofy-sounding characters and bizarre things that \[Françaix] wrote into the concerto.” Yiyun remarks that composers like Françaix “will write the craziest, weirdest technical passages… things that sound super modern and crazy, but then at the same time they’ll write the most gorgeous, lyrical slow movements.” In the Françaix, “most of the movements are very technical and kind of all-over-the-place, but then the third movement is this beautiful, gorgeous, slow movement.” Her favorite part of the concerto is this contrast, specifically “the transition between the third and fourth movements, because the ending of the third movement is super ethereal and disappears into the atmosphere, and then the beginning of the fourth movement is crazy, loud, and \[blaringly] high—it almost sounds like a laugh.” She finds it “really amusing” to go between those movements, and also thinks that “the fourth movement in general is very clown-like and really funny to listen to.” Yiyun remarks that “Françaix knew that he was writing \[a goofy] piece… In general, \[he] was a very carefree and sort of silly composer.” Although she wishes she could ask Françaix his inspirations and intentions behind the piece, she supposes that he wanted it to be both technically challenging and amusing to listen to: “It’s meant to make you laugh.” 

The piece is a poignant representation of her growth as a clarinetist: “I remember really distinctly this one time I had a conversation with a friend and \[they asked], ‘Do you feel like there’s any music in the clarinet repertoire that would be too hard for you?’ I \[said] ‘Oh yeah, for sure,’ and one of the pieces that I named was the Françaix.” Before diving into the Françaix, she had never learned a complete concerto, only individual movements or shorter show pieces. Now, she has not only learned the entire concerto but will perform it as an orchestral soloist, accompanied by her proud friends and classmates. She explains the surreal feeling of playing with an orchestral accompaniment: “Playing with orchestra… you’re enveloped by so many other musicians… to feel all the different sounds and timbres and parts surrounding you… it just feels super cool.” However, she admits that the new setting “definitely presents a lot of challenges… Rehearsing with the orchestra has been such a call-out to all the spots that \[she tends to rush]. Having to adjust to so many people who are accompanying you is certainly a different challenge.” In my humble opinion, I think she has risen to the challenge wonderfully.

After graduating this spring, Yiyun will sadly be leaving the BUO and the “really immersive music experience” she has had at Brown. However, she is determined to fashion for herself a “fruitful music experience post-grad” alongside her intended work in health or food policy. We wish her all the best in finding her way in the world and keeping music close to her heart!